This is my two-three page paper, I could not submit a word document, so I added it here instead, hope this works! Thank you!
Jessica Sorsen
Instructor Quinn Lanik
Computer Science 155N, Section 210
Final Project
May 3, 2021 
	This final project I created is based around a type of dating that Geologists often use, Radioisotopic dating, and it was approved by Thien Cao. I will be able to use this code in the future and will even be able to make more like this, so I can solve different types of this problem. I specifically chose Carbon-14 because it is used heavily in dating things containing organic material like fossils. I will be working closely with Radioisotopic dating since I plan on focusing on Geochemistry with an emphasis in Mineralogy. Radioisotopic dating measures the Radioactive decay of a miner, hence why I called this code radioactiveDecay. This code measures and plots how much time has past since the Carbon-14 started to decay. It also graphs how much daughter and parent isotopes there are. A daughter isotope is the newer stuff replacing the older stuff the parent isotopes, which is the original material (just a rough explanation it’s more complicated than that). This may help me with the research I am currently doing, as I am working with isotopes to determine the age of elements. The code will definitely help me with classes in the future, since I can plug it in and see the entire sequence of radioactive decay of a certain element, or I can find how much time has passed by inputting the percent of parent left and the percent of daughter there.
	From the beginning I thought I would make a general code that would work with any type of radioactive decay, but I found out that that would be too ambitious. I ended up changing it to Carbon-14, since it is a very common isotope used in most sciences. I was able to easily get a base code written, but I ran into many issues along the way. I was again too ambitious on my graphs. I wanted to have a preset graph with every point possible on it and show where the one you inputted lies on that graph, but I ended up changing gears and just having it graph what it needed to. I was surprised to find that I ended up doing exactly what I had originally planned for the graph. It takes some manual inputs to get it to look how it should, but I was extremely happy with how that turned out. I had some issues with the callback functions and the number of inputs that the code was getting, but when I went to office hours, I was able to figure out how to fix that issue. I used an if statement to try and filter out the inaccurate information. The statement regulates what nD and nP can be, it makes sure that it is in a percent form between 0 and 100. 
This project was not easy for me, just like this class is not my easiest class. I love getting a challenge and figuring out what to do. I will be using this software in the future, and GUIs will certainly help me create codes for my research. In the future it is crucial for me to know how to use MATLAB for my research. That includes GUI, math functions, and plotting. I feel like after this semester I could write fairly proficiently in MATLAB, but I may still need help with it. I know in the future GUI’s will allow me to write codes my advisors will be able to easily use and understand, especially with plotting. They will be able to put in inputs and press plot and see where the data lies. I plan on showing this code to my current research advisor to see if this or s similar code would help with our current research. I am really excited to make more code like this and to use this code in the future. It will definitely help me in my classes, especially next semester when I am working more closely with elements that make up minerals and rocks. I hope to write many more codes like this one and more efficiently solve the problems in class. Maybe one day I will figure out how to make a code that is able to solve for any element and not just for Carbon-14. Surely, I will find a solution one day (bad joke I know). 
This class was probably one of my most difficult classes this semester, but the way that Instructor Quinn Lanik taught it, I was able to learn it much easier than I expected. I will definitely use most of what I learned this semester in the future for research purposes, as I will be doing a lot of research throughout my entire life. That is the entire reason why I took this class, to be able to use this when I need it for my research. I had no coding experience when I first showed up to this class, and now I am somewhat confident in my coding abilities, certainly much more confident than when I started. Thank you for helping me learn more about coding. 
